# Mingyu Li (IPADS Lab)

**lmy2010lmy@gmail.com**

## EDUCATION

**Shanghai Jiao Tong University**

2019 - now

Ph.D. Electronics and Information

**Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications**

2015 – 2018

M.S. Computer Science and Technology

**Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications**

2011 – 2015

B.S. Applied Physics


## PUBLICATIONS

**Mingyu Li**, Hongliang Liang, Yixiu Chen, Tianqi Yang, Si Zhuo, Lin Jiang, **Architectural Solution of Trusted System Services for SGX Enclaves in Cloud Computing**, IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing (TCC) 2019.

Hongliang Liang, **Mingyu Li**, **Bring the Missing Jigsaw Back: TrustedClock for SGX Enclaves,** EuroSec@EuroSys 2018.

Hongliang Liang, **Mingyu Li**, Jian Xu, Wenying Hu, Xiaoxiao Pei, Xiaodong Jia, Yan Song, **vmOS: A virtualization-based, secure desktop system**, Computers & Security 2017.

## RESEARCH AND PROJECT EXPERIENCES

**SMM-based Microkernel**

2017 – 2018

Proposed a new architecture called SMK to bridge hardware resources and SGX enclaves in future cloud centers. The basic idea of SMK is to reuse existing SMM mode on the x86 platform and retrofit UEFI/BIOS in order to provide architectural support of framework that offers trusted system-level services. It provides absolute, high-precision and attack-aware time resource and device-end to enclave-end stealthy network channels (enclave-level lwip network stack).

**RTEMS RTOS / C6678 DSP**

2016 – 2018

Ported RTEMS (Real-Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems) on TI TMS320C6678 8-core high-performance DSP. Designed and implemented necessary board support packages including 1) filesystem and flash translation layer for NOR, 2) FreeBSD network protocol stack for 1000Gigabit NIC card and 3) multi-core communication protocol (MPCI interface) on shared physical memory.

**vmOS (KVM-based) Desktop System**

2014 – 2016

Designed and implemented an integrated GUI for end-users that leverages existing Intel VT-x to isolate untrusted apps in different VM-based sandboxes. Used a label-based MAC mechanism to enforce secure copying when providing file sharing between different levels, in addition to exploiting VT-d to accelerate I/O performance.


## RESEARCH INTERESTS
***Hardware architectures and operating systems, especially with regard to security, privacy and dependability.***