# Mingyu Li

**Institute of Parallel and Distributed Systems, Shanghai Jiao Tong University**

**maxullee at sjtu dot edu dot cn**

## RESEARCH INTERESTS

***Hardware architectures and operating systems, especially with regard to security, privacy and dependability.***

## EDUCATION

**Shanghai Jiao Tong University**

Ph.D. Electronics and Information

2019 - 2023

**Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications**

M.S. Computer Science and Technology

2015 – 2018

**Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications**

B.S. Applied Physics

2011 – 2015


## PUBLICATIONS

Jinyu Gu, Bojun Zhu, **Mingyu Li**, Wentai Li, Yubin Xia, and Haibo Chen. ***A Hardware-Software Co-design for Efficient Intra-Enclave Isolation***, USENIX Security 2022

**Mingyu Li**, Tianxu Zhang, Jinhao Zhu, Cheng Tan, Yubin Xia, Sebastian Angel, Haibo Chen. ***Bringing Decentralized Search to Decentralized Services***, USENIX OSDI 2021.

**Mingyu Li**, Yubin Xia, Haibo Chen. ***Confidential Serverless Made Efficient with Plug-In Enclaves***, IEEE/ACM ISCA 2021.

**Mingyu Li**, Hongliang Liang, Yixiu Chen, Tianqi Yang, Si Zhuo, Lin Jiang. ***Architectural Solution of Trusted System Services for SGX Enclaves in Cloud Computing***, IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing (TCC) 2019.

Hongliang Liang, **Mingyu Li**. ***Bring the Missing Jigsaw Back: TrustedClock for SGX Enclaves***, EuroSec@EuroSys 2018.

Hongliang Liang, **Mingyu Li**, Jian Xu, Wenying Hu, Xiaoxiao Pei, Xiaodong Jia, Yan Song. ***vmOS: A virtualization-based, secure desktop system***, Computers & Security 2017.

## RESEARCH AND PROJECT EXPERIENCES

**Fully Encrypted Databases**

2019-now

- Designed an auditing shim layer to check if SQL queries are correctly executed in clouds.
- Designed Arm TrustZone UDF supporting both OLTP and OLAP over full encrypted data.
- Accelerated encrypted database operations using hardware- and crypto-based techniques.

**A Hardware-Software Co-design for Efficient Intra-Enclave Isolation (USENIX SEC 2022)**

2021-2022

Proposed LIGHTENCLAVE that  embraces non-intrusive extensions on existing SGX hardware to incorporate MPK securely and allows multiple light-enclaves to be isolated within one enclave. The key problem is that SGX adopts a monolithic model, by running entire secure code with all dependencies (even LibOSes) within one enclave, which is favored for compatibility but bloats the TCB and thus deviates from the goal of security. LIGHTENCLAVE provides intra-enclave fine-grained isolation using MPK with up to 4% overhead for SOTA LibOS, i.e., Graphene-SGX and Occlum. MPK is retrofitted to build a compatible trust model between MPK and SGX without trusting the underlying OS.

**Bringing Decentralized Search to Decentralized Services (OSDI 2021)**

2019-2021

Attempted to address a key missing piece in the current ecosystem of decentralized services and blockchain apps: the lack of decentralized, verifiable, and private search. Existing decentralized systems rely on centralized search engines and indexers, subject to censorship and privacy violation. The proposed system named DeSearch is the first decentralized search engine, using trusted hardware to build a network of workers that execute a pipeline of small search engine tasks (crawl, index, aggregate, rank, query). The witness mechanism ensures the completed tasks can be reused across different pipelines, and makes the final search results verifiable by end users.

**Confidential Serverless Made Efficient with Plug-In Enclaves (ISCA 2021)**

2019-2020

Measured existing serverless functions within SGX enclaves, and identified the function slowdown is mainly related to the page-wise enclave initialization. This work revisits SGX hardware design, and extends SGX with a new abstraction—Plug-In Enclaves (PIE). PIE can be map plugins into host enclaves to reuse attested states amongst functions. PIE further allows in-situ processing to avoid expensive data movement in a function chain. PIE can reduce the enclave function latency by 94.74-99.57%, and boosts the autoscaling throughput by 19-179x.

**SMM-based Microkernel**

2017 – 2018

Proposed a new architecture called SMK to bridge hardware resources and SGX enclaves in future cloud centers. The basic idea of SMK is to reuse existing SMM mode on the x86 platform and retrofit UEFI/BIOS in order to provide architectural support of framework that offers trusted system-level services. It provides absolute, high-precision and attack-aware time resource and device-end to enclave-end stealthy network channels (enclave-level lwip network stack).

**RTEMS RTOS / C6678 DSP**

2016 – 2018

Ported RTEMS (Real-Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems) on TI TMS320C6678 8-core high-performance DSP. Designed and implemented necessary board support packages including 1) filesystem and flash translation layer for NOR, 2) FreeBSD network protocol stack for 1000Gigabit NIC card and 3) multi-core communication protocol (MPCI interface) on shared physical memory.

**vmOS (KVM-based) Desktop System**

2014 – 2016

Designed and implemented an integrated GUI for end-users that leverages existing Intel VT-x to isolate untrusted apps in different VM-based sandboxes. Used a label-based MAC mechanism to enforce secure copying when providing file sharing between different levels, in addition to exploiting VT-d to accelerate I/O performance.
