# Mingyu Li

**Institute of Parallel and Distributed Systems, Shanghai Jiao Tong University**

**maxullee at sjtu dot edu dot cn**

## RESEARCH INTERESTS

***Smart security and practical privacy on emerging scenarios such as cloud serverless, blockchain apps, autonomous vehicles, virtual reality, and large language models.***

## EDUCATION

**Shanghai Jiao Tong University**

Ph.D. Electronics and Information

2019 - 2023

**Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications**

M.S. Computer Science and Technology

2015 – 2018

**Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications**

B.S. Applied Physics

2011 – 2015


## PUBLICATIONS

**Mingyu Li**, Xuyang Zhao, Le Chen, Cheng Tan, Huorong Li, Sheng Wang, Zeyu Mi, Yubin Xia, Feifei Li, Haibo Chen. ***Encrypted Databases Made Secure Yet Maintainable***, USENIX OSDI 2023.

Jinyu Gu, Bojun Zhu, **Mingyu Li**, Wentai Li, Yubin Xia, and Haibo Chen. ***A Hardware-Software Co-design for Efficient Intra-Enclave Isolation***, USENIX Security 2022

**Mingyu Li**, Tianxu Zhang, Jinhao Zhu, Cheng Tan, Yubin Xia, Sebastian Angel, Haibo Chen. ***Bringing Decentralized Search to Decentralized Services***, USENIX OSDI 2021.

**Mingyu Li**, Yubin Xia, Haibo Chen. ***Confidential Serverless Made Efficient with Plug-In Enclaves***, IEEE/ACM ISCA 2021.

**Mingyu Li**, Hongliang Liang, Yixiu Chen, Tianqi Yang, Si Zhuo, Lin Jiang. ***Architectural Solution of Trusted System Services for SGX Enclaves in Cloud Computing***, IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing (TCC) 2019.

Hongliang Liang, **Mingyu Li**. ***Bring the Missing Jigsaw Back: TrustedClock for SGX Enclaves***, EuroSec@EuroSys 2018.

Hongliang Liang, **Mingyu Li**, Jian Xu, Wenying Hu, Xiaoxiao Pei, Xiaodong Jia, Yan Song. ***vmOS: A virtualization-based, secure desktop system***, Computers & Security 2017.

## RESEARCH AND PROJECT EXPERIENCES

**Maintainable Encrypted Databases**

2020-2023

+ Surveyed state-of-the-art encrypted databases (EDB) and categorized them into two types.
+ Devised an exceedingly efficient and stealthy interface attack to type-II EDB that cloud vendors have deployed.
+ Conducted an empirical study of typical maintenance issues and DBA operation tasks in modern DBaaS services.
+ Designed and implemented HEDB (HE denotes the 2nd element with neutrality, meaning dual modes and stable isolation), re-enabling common DBA-based maintenance tasks without compromising user secrets.

**Efficient Intra-Enclave Isolation**

2021-2022

+ Revisited the monolithic programming model in SGX, and identified its TCB bloating issue. 
+ Retrofitted off-the-shelf Intel MPK for a sound trust model with non-intrusive SGX extensions and provided intra-enclave isolation with minimal overhead.

**Decentralized Search Service**

2019-2021

+ Surveyed the current ecosystem of decentralized services and blockchain apps, and identified a key missing piece: *the lack of decentralized, verifiable, and private search*.
+ Explored a novel decentralized search engine---*DeSearch*---harvesting TEE resources in the wild to build a network of workers composing a pipeline of small tasks (crawl, index, aggregate, rank, query).
+ Proposed a verifiable blockchain-cloud infrastructure (*Kanban*) and an efficient distributed verification method (*Witness*).

**Efficient Confidential Serverless**

2019-2020

+ Revisited SGXv1 and SGXv2 hardware design, measured FaaS functions within SGX enclaves, and identified the fundamental reason why enclave functions start slowly---page-wise initialization and hashing essential to attestation.
+ Extended SGX with a new abstraction---*Plug-In Enclaves (PIE)*---to boost function startup and autoscaling under protection.
+ Proposed *PIE-based in-situ processing* to remove copying+en/decryption+marshalling in function chaining.

**Desktop Trusted I/O**

2017 – 2018

+ Proposed an x86 SMM-mode microkernel offering secure I/O services for SGX client apps.
+ Provided a rollback-aware timer, and a secure keyboard for passwords.

**RTOS over DSP**

2016 – 2018

+ Ported RTEMS (Real-Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems) to an 8-core high-performance DSP.
+ Implemented glue code as necessary board support packages (BSP):
1. JFFS2 filesystem and flash translation layer for NOR,
2. FreeBSD network protocol stack for 1000Gb NIC card,
3. MPCI-based multicore communication protocol over SRAM.

**VM-based Secure Desktop**

2014 – 2016

+ Isolated untrusted apps in different VM-based sandboxes but provided an integrated GUI desktop for users.
+ Employed DIFC to enforce secure data copy-paste and file sharing between apps.

### SERVICE

+ ChinaSys 2022- Volunteer: [Open-Source Index](https://chinasys.org/opensource/p-index.html)
+ OSDI 2022 ARC
+  ATC 2022 AEC
+ SOSP 2021 AEC